Audience checking (#78)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-oauth: README.md

Some authorization servers don't provide the `iss` claim. In that case you would not set `oauth.valid.issuer.uri`, and you would explicitly turn off issuer checking by setting the following option to `false`:
- `oauth.check.issuer` (e.g. "false")

> You can enforce audience check, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to limit access to tokens that are explicitly issued for use by your protected server.

Reviewer: I think "limit access" is a bit confusing. IIUC it's not that there is something which can't _access_ the tokens, it's that the tokens are rejected as invalid because they weren't issued to be used for that Kafka broker (acting in the role of resource server). Maybe "...which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent validation of tokens that weren't explicitly issued for use by your protected server." would be better phrasing.

Also, normal English usage would be "You can enforce audience checking".

Author: OTOH when I hear 'enforce audience checking' I specifically think of this functionality being enabled vs. not being enabled. I don't think about the process of validating the token being triggered and failing. Rather I think about the process of validating not being attempted at all.

Author: Ah, sorry I misunderstood your last sentence. So with regards to 'limit access', what about saying it like this:

"...which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent *authentication* of tokens that weren't explicitly issued for use by your protected server."

Author: Or maybe it should be:

"...which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent *successful authentication with* tokens that weren't explicitly issued for use by your protected server."

Reviewer: SGTM.

Author: Slightly reworded to fit with the line that follows:

"You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent *successful authentication with* tokens **unless they are** explicitly issued for use by your resource server."

The authorization server adds the allowed resource servers' `client ids` into `aud` claim of such tokens.

> Set the following option to `true` to enforce audience check (it is not enabled by default). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the following option to `true` to enforce audience checking (it is not enabled by default). 
```

> - `oauth.check.audience` (e.g. "true")

Reviewer 2: So, the JWT token contains the `aud` field, right? And the `oauth.check.audience` says that it should be checked. But checked against what? Where do you set the allowed `aud` values?

Author: The valid value is only one - the configured `oauth.client.id`. Maybe it's not adequately explained in the README.md?
For example - if client id is configured as 'kafka' which it usually is, then the examples of valid `aud` value are:

* "kafka"
* ["rest-api", "kafka"]

> When audience check is enabled the `oauth.client.id` has to be configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When audience checking is enabled the `oauth.client.id` has to be configured:
```

> - `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for Kafka Broker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for the Kafka Broker)
```

Some authorization servers don't provide the `iss` claim. In that case you would not set `oauth.valid.issuer.uri`, and you would explicitly turn off issuer checking by setting the following option to `false`:
- `oauth.check.issuer` (e.g. "false")

> You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication with tokens that are explicitly issued for use by your resource server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication with tokens that are not explicitly issued for use by your resource server.
```

Author: Good catch, I suggest a slightly different fix to keep consistency with the next sentence.
```suggestion
You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication unless the tokens are explicitly issued for use by your resource server.
```

> The authorization server adds the allowed resource servers' `client IDs` into `aud` claim of such tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authorization server adds the allowed resource servers' `client IDs` into the `aud` claim of such tokens.
```

Specify the following `oauth.*` properties:
- `oauth.introspection.endpoint.uri` (e.g.: "https://localhost:8443/auth/realms/demo/protocol/openid-connect/token/introspect")
- `oauth.valid.issuer.uri` (e.g.: "https://localhost:8443/auth/realms/demo" - only access tokens issued by this issuer will be accepted)

> - `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for Kafka Broker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for the Kafka Broker)
```

- `oauth.client.secret` (e.g.: "kafka-secret")
 
Introspection endpoint should be protected. The `oauth.client.id` and `oauth.client.secret` specify Kafka Broker credentials for authenticating to access the introspection endpoint. 

Some authorization servers don't provide the `iss` claim. In that case you would not set `oauth.valid.issuer.uri`, and you would explicitly turn off issuer checking by setting the following option to `false`:
- `oauth.check.issuer` (e.g.: "false")

> You can enforce audience check, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to limit access to tokens that are explicitly issued for use by your protected server.

Reviewer: Same comment

(also why are we repeating this verbatim , can't we just refer the reader to the previous duscussion?)

Author: It's structured to have 'fast local JWT checking' chapter with all the config options, and a separate 'introspection based validation' chapter. Some options are shared by both. But if you look closely you'll see that there are some nuances and even the part about audience checking is slightly different for 'fast JWT checking' chapter. There's this sentence:

"When audience check is enabled the `oauth.client.id` has to be configured:
- `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for Kafka Broker)" 

Which is not present in 'Introspection based validation' chapter, because `oauth.client.id` is already a required configuration there.

I prefer it this way as it's more user-friendly than having the user jump around and trying to figure out if something fits together with something else.

Specify the following `oauth.*` properties:
- `oauth.introspection.endpoint.uri` (e.g.: "https://localhost:8443/auth/realms/demo/protocol/openid-connect/token/introspect")
- `oauth.valid.issuer.uri` (e.g.: "https://localhost:8443/auth/realms/demo" - only access tokens issued by this issuer will be accepted)
- `oauth.client.id` (e.g.: "kafka" - this is the OAuth2 client configuration id for the Kafka Broker)
- `oauth.client.secret` (e.g.: "kafka-secret")
 
Introspection endpoint should be protected. The `oauth.client.id` and `oauth.client.secret` specify Kafka Broker credentials for authenticating to access the introspection endpoint. 

Some authorization servers don't provide the `iss` claim. In that case you would not set `oauth.valid.issuer.uri`, and you would explicitly turn off issuer checking by setting the following option to `false`:
- `oauth.check.issuer` (e.g.: "false")

> You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication with tokens that are explicitly issued for use by your resource server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication with tokens that are not explicitly issued for use by your resource server.
```

Author: Again ...
```suggestion
You can enforce audience checking, which is an OAuth2 mechanism to prevent successful authentication unless tokens are explicitly issued for use by your resource server.
```

> The authorization server adds the allowed resource servers' `client IDs` into `aud` claim of such tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authorization server adds the allowed resource servers' `client IDs` into the `aud` claim of such tokens.
```
